And your name is pronounced Zeek.
Okay.
But it's spelled for the shape of C-A-C-H.
And if you could just give me a—why don't we just enter into conversation about what you do here?
Okay.
Well, my official title is Director of Electronic Programs, and this gives me a good deal of freedom of movement.
Pertinent to what I take to be your interest, electronic libraries of the future, perhaps.
I should say that I guess I was there at the beginning.
You were just also interested in how it might relate to print culture, too.
Ah, yes.
But, you know, all of the elements.
Well, I have the distinction of having been mentioned by Sven Berkertz in Gutenberg Elegies as an apparently sensible person who was sort of knocked a little bit
off-center by the impact of electronic things and electronic enthusiasms.
I don't know if that's accurate or not.
You can make that judgment.
In any event, here at the library we— But do you like their characterization?
Well, I like the sensible part.
As it happens, I am also a great book lover and collector.
Oh, really?
I have several thousand volumes in my own private library and some special interests like Washington history books and so on, history of Washington, D.C.
books and others.
And on the other hand— That's the primary collection?
Of my own?
Yeah.
No, actually—well, I have several.
One of them, for instance, is 20th century English novelists, and I have very extensive collections of first printings and editions and so on, and book jackets of a number of what I believe to be the best English authors.
But in any event, it's wide-ranging and eclectic.
It's a sentence anyway, believe it or not for me.
I'm interested in that.
Go ahead.
And have long had an interest in books in all their forms, and even considered being a rare book librarian at one point.
On the other hand, I spend a lot of time online right now, and am astonished by the kinds of information, range of information, that you can find, quote unquote, freely available on the internet.
Information is the key word, too, isn't it?
It is.
It's a key word.
It is very much so.
So that, for instance, I was highly interested in a Jane Austen site, which is run out of the University of Texas.
There is a Jane Austen scholar there, a graduate student, I think, who perhaps—I'm not sure how this site came to exist—decided in the course of his graduate labors to produce this extensive Jane Austen site with
trillions of hyperlinks and so on between the names of characters, for instance, and a description of what that character is, the place in the novel.
I was thinking of Pride and Prejudice, which he's done this to considerably.
Background information, there are links to all the names of the houses and everything that you can think of, so that instead of having an incredibly, probably overly footnoted
scholarly text based on the text of Pride and Prejudice.
You have a worldwide website available to everyone who has an interest that allows that.
This is sort of approaching a work of art as something that needs all sorts of information attached to it for various scholarly and other purposes.
One of the things in my collection is some of the old, very scholarly editions of Boswell's Life of Johnson, four volumes, six volumes all told, of the life and the other Boswell works relating to Johnson, which have the text as sort of a little trickle of original Boswell text at the top of these pages, which have these vast collections of footnotes.
filling most of the rest of the page, page after page.
And I guess I'm strange enough to enjoy that sort of thing.
I just sort of enjoy the byways of scholarship and what, in that case, Birkbeck Hill and other Johnson scholars found out about all the people mentioned in that text.
Well, it's sort of my own personal interest in that kind of scholarly presentation, a classic work,
associated with quantities of scholarly research sort of easily accessible about the original classic work, which causes me to find intriguing and interesting what this person at the University of Texas did with Jane Austen.
However, all that essentially is information.
It isn't sitting down at a screen to read a piece of literature and just enjoying it as literature as opposed to as a subject of scholarly research.
Have you ever tried that?
I have, as a matter of fact, I have tried that.
Not too long ago I got out a tape recording of Henry James' The American, which I had never read before.
And I was reading it back, I was rather listening to it, as I drove back and forth to work, and became so engrossed in the story that the reading was absolutely appalling.
But somehow, James managed to penetrate through that narrator and hook my interest so that I wanted to just read it.
And as it happens, it wasn't convenient for me to get to the library or a bookstore and buy it, and so one night I just sat down at my computer and got off the American, the original text, and tried to find some things which I didn't remember quite well.
No, I just checked one of the big indexing services like Altafista or Hotbot or whatever it was.
So this stuff is easily available.
It's online, in other words.
Much of it, yeah.
There are large numbers of scholarly works, I mean that's classic works of literature and philosophy and all sorts of things, which are available in full text on the NAM.
And I can show you some of those if you're interested.
I wouldn't mind trying even to look up to some of them myself at home, you know.
And I think that my response to this is pretty much universal at present, which is that this is a very clunky and unsatisfactory way to read large quantities.
Did you read the whole book, by the way, by the way?
Oh, no, no, no, I did not, by no means.
No, I mostly just heard the rest of it in my car.
And you'd pick up the book afterwards.
Okay, that anticipates the question.
you did finally go to the printed text yes that's correct and I think most people would do that when they have to when they're interested in reading something for the literary the kinds of pleasures that classics of literature can give you or certain other kinds of things obviously art books for instance are things which are probably well presented in print are uniquely well presented in print form although it is also the case that there are wonderful collections of images of
of painters available.
There's something called Net Museum available on the web.
As a matter of fact, that's a printout of a Durer that I got made just last Sunday at my home, using my home printer.
That one down there?
Yeah, that one right there.
Really?
Wow.
And there's something like twenty-five in that same site.
There's something like twenty-five of the thirty-five or so existing Vermeers and beautifully reproduced.
And there's a certain amount of text associated with them, but it's still a different experience from having a beautiful, large, well-produced art book in your lap or on your table.
So, there are many things one can do even now on the web.
One of them tends not to be the reading of classical texts at length.
I think that the web is certainly supreme in offering bits of information.
John and I were doing some business with Encyclopedia Britannica, which now has Joe Esposito.
I don't know if you know him as president.
And Britannica is one of those companies which is really—don't please quote me.
I think in crisis because of recent developments, because of the facility with which networks, and in particular the web, can provide information.
That's one of those instances where the net is going to be superior.
Oh, absolutely.
The OED, for instance, is another example.
Yeah, and that has been available on CD-ROM, as you know.
In fact, the second edition is available on one CD-ROM, the first.
edition was originally issued as two, which was clunky.
And originally they were selling the CD for $8.95 or something.
Just recently they brought down the price in half, and now it's, I think, $4.95, but you can often get it for $3.95.
Think of all the constant supplements they had to do.
I mean, these things were almost obsolete the day they hit them.
That's true.
And they are intending to get out a full new edition of it, and by full I mean fully revised, as you may know, the way they did the
Even the updated so-called second edition, it basically was the old text plus supplements patched on to the end.
It wasn't rethinking and reviewing.
Which I own and love, but... Yes, oh, I do too.
I have two copies of it.
We're having a slight emergency.
Why don't you... And I had interrupted you.
You were about to tell me something about the Encyclopedia Botanica.
According to news reports, sales have really tailed off in recent times.
Joe is a very smart guy, and he has tried to figure out how to deal with this new circumstance.
As you know, there's a tremendous overhead at the Britannic.
It is a serious scholarly publication, and it requires a lot of money to keep it up to date.
It's a vast work.
And so they need big sales of some kind in order to support it.
In any event, he did put out a CD-ROM, which was not well received.
The software associated with it was not particularly effective.
He put out a second edition of it about a year ago, which has received better reviews, but the price is quite high, and most of the reviews have
been favorable to, obviously, the content and to a certain degree to the interface, but have said the price is way out of line when you think that it's easy to buy for under fifty dollars.
In my case, I bought two good encyclopedias, not Britannicas, but two good reputable encyclopedias on CD-ROM for fifteen dollars each.
Well, $15 for one and $28 for the other, but the other includes a whole range of other reference works associated with it.
And you can't, you know, you can't sell a Botanica for whatever it is, $400 or $500 on CD-ROM when you can get something that's not approachable, but is quite acceptable, isn't it?
Functional.
And which has all of the bells and whistles, which now people seem to
either want or think they want it.
Well, the CD-ROM apparently has to give them something beyond a text, I guess.
Exactly.
Well, and they do.
And it's not—I don't mean to trivialize that.
It is nice to be able to hear bird calls and to hear a lion.
That's the only thing I can see out of that Audubon book, actually.
Well, actually, I can show you one I've got right here, which— And if it's the new Knopf one, I have it.
No, it's not that.
It's rather—actually, it's rather a low-grade one.
the Infopedia, but I like it very much.
Oh, here's another thing that might interest you.
AuthorWorks.
This is actually a joint product.
This is just one.
The other is classic American authors.
Which is that?
Oh, it's Scott, isn't it Scott Forsman?
Yeah.
AuthorWorks, it's called, right?
And is this authors doing their own?
Actually, it's an interesting array of things.
If we had time, I could show you this too.
I was curious.
I was skeptical as to the value of it.
I got into this, though, and was looking at the Emily Dickinson stuff that they had.
And I could see that for, particularly for a high schooler, but even for me, it was highly interesting.
They had lots of pictures of all the people she knew and of her house, but then also good, I think, sound text, quoting reviews and so on.
Well, you know, obviously, you get things like this, Harry Houdini from A Straightjacket.
The name Houdini meant startling, beweltering, impossible things similar to this.
With the authentic sound there.
Yeah, right.
And that's kind of nice, but then for somebody like Fred Astaire, it seems to me it's very nice.
Let's see if I can show you this.
This is called Info... This is Infopedia, yeah, it's up here at the top.
So, you know, you can read about Fred Astaire, but when you can actually see him dance—
That's great.
No book's ever going to do that.
Yeah, exactly.
I have to watch this because I just did it.
Yeah, I love it.
Which note is that from, just that particular piece?
Pauline Goddard.
As a matter of fact, I don't know.
It may say here somewhere.
Well, it's Fred Astaire and Pauline Goddard.
That's fine.
Which reminds me of a nice thing.
Hi.
Welcome back.
I was reading just the other day a piece about Hirschfeld, you know, the fellow who does the theatrical drawings in the New York Times, who's in his 90s, now I'm still going strong.
Apparently, Jules Pfeiffer said about Hirschfeld that
Hirschfeld is to drawing what Fred Astaire is to dance.
Defines the whole century.
The person who quoted that said, he's got it right there.
You don't need to say anything more about Hirschfeld.
Anyway, so there's this sort of thing.
I paid, what is it, $26 or something for this, which has the full Funk and Weigel's Encyclopedia, the Merriam-Webster Collegiate, the Merriam-Webster Thesaurus, a Hammond atlas.
a Webster's quote book.
It's something like eight reference titles for $26.
That's amazing.
Yeah, it is amazing.
How can they afford to do it?
I don't know, frankly.
Because they're probably not doing any new work.
Well, of course they are.
They're getting this stuff here.
Somebody has to get this material.
And they're beautiful shots of Hitler and Mussolini.
It's that classic shot of Mussolini in which he's sort of
mugging for a brass crowd with his chest puffed out and so on.
Wouldn't it be great to have, I mean, we've seen all these things growing up, you know, and they're still resonant images because you remember them, but to actually have them available at home where you can punch them up.
Imagine in sports, you know, some of those great, great moments.
They do.
The Bobby Thompson home run and, you know.
The Lou Gehrig thing.
His last visit to New York Yankee Stadium and so on.
So there are things which these
You know, something like this can do, and the Britannicas are trying to figure out how to make it work for them.
Do you agree with Owen Gingrich, who did a review of the Hubble Space Telescope CD-ROM, that these are the incunables of the form?
You know, he said, they're great.
It's a nice, noble try, he says, but years from now they will be regarded as the incunables of the form.
I think that that's true.
I mean, it's a sweeping statement, but it's an interesting observation.
I absolutely agree.
I think we're at the pre-Model T stage even in lots of ways with respect to the presentation of information and creative works, I guess you could say, very broadly on the Internet.
We're very good, I think, with information even now.
With respect to the presentation of creative works, we're still finding a way.
The traditional sort of media are still pretty—and by media is an unfortunate word, I'm also thinking of classic literature and so on—are still, I think, relatively poorly presented in this mode.
One can envision a time when there may be some sort of slab or something magazine-like, which in fact will allow you
to carry it around, to take it to bed, to take it into the bathtub, or to take it to the beach, or whatever, as well as sit down at a desk with it, and provide a very beautiful presentation of images, moving images, good sound.
allows you perhaps to speak to it and call up from Information Central or whatever you want to call the world's library that might be available through telecommunications at that time.
Is this kind of what you're working with, what you personally are working with?
Well, yeah.
It is in a sense, but this is so far away from present technology that it's more a dream.
It is a dream right now.
But I'm just sort of as a thought exercise going through what might happen twenty years, even twenty years from now.
Maybe less.
Or maybe less.
We made that so sometimes.
Oh, absolutely.
The web has just been an astonishing phenomenon.
And one of the things you periodically read about it is a description of a web generation.
A web generation is something like a year.
Unbelievable.
And then after that next year— And how old is your microchip, you know?
Well, that goes back to the early seventies.
I guess.
You look at the speed.
I mean, I bought a computer for five years.
I wrote my book on it.
It was state-of-the-art.
I learned it's 33 megahertz.
Now I just bought a little Toshiba.
There's 133, and already they're going to come out with faster ones.
You can't even hope to keep up with it.
Yeah, it is amazing.
But at some point, we will probably, and maybe within our lifetimes, have
So tell me a little bit about, you know, your role and all that.
Oh, well, as I started to say way back, I was involved in something called the optical disk pilot program, which the library started in the early 80's.
What was the name of it?
Okay, so there was in the early 80s— Optical disk pilot program.
Yes.
And that was our first stab at putting some of our collections in machine-readable form in a very experimental mode, just to see how long it took, how well they reproduced, how well the technology was suited to conversion of our collections, and so on.
That expanded in 1990 into actually a congressionally financed five-year pilot program called American Memory.
And there we took much larger numbers of items and converted them to electronic form.
And then in 95, at the end of the pilot, we were told that it seemed to be quite successful.
We had 44 test sites all over the country, and we discovered that middle and high school kids liked being able to use, and their teachers liked the kids to use, the raw materials that we were supplying.
in our American Memory collection, like Brady photographs 1118 of them from the Civil War.
There are material, you mean, online?
Have you seen this?
Have you seen our site?
I can show you in a few minutes.
No.
Is there something I can crunch into at home?
That's right.
Why don't I do that?
If it's in here, I'll be able to do it.
Okay.
I probably should give you a better version of that, too.
So, long and short of the time for the interview, and
Okay, good.
This is more—I'll grab this opportunity while I have it right here.
So now we have an ambition to have created what we call five million digital items.
That may be between one and two million collection-type items.
From your own collection, of course.
From our own collection, that's right, and put them on the web.
Now, in addition, however, we got a two million—well,
Part of that's being supported by congressional appropriations, about $3 million worth a year.
But in addition, we have to try to match that three to one from private gifts.
And so over the five years, we'd be receiving $15 million from Congress, assuming that all goes well, and we would have to raise $45 million.
And we're halfway there to the $45 million in private gifts at this point.
Like so much?
What kinds of?
Oh, all sorts.
The two biggest gifts were from John Kluge, who was head of the library's friends group called the Madisonians, K-L-U-G-E, until Bill Gates sort of arrived on the scene and Microsoft flourished.
Kluge was the richest man in America, unfortunately.
He's in media.
He has some cable companies.
He doesn't, you know, promote himself and his name very much.
I would say in his seventies now, and he chairs that Madisonian group.
He's still the second or third richest person in the country, has a place over here.
Slipped, right.
Down to probably fifteen billion instead of .
Right, right.
And so he gave us five million.
Kellogg Foundation gave us three million, and that was specifically to help make our collections most usable, as usable as they could be in schools.
And that group recently put out this brochure telling about some of the things they were doing.
Can I have anything that you wanted that you can give me?
I don't have right here, right now, the good brochure on
on our collections that are up, but I'll try to get that one for you.
I'd love to get one before I leave today.
Do you think that'll be possible?
Sure.
Let me see.
I hope at some point I can call you to follow up on this.
Sure.
If you could just tell me, give me a parapet, it would be better.
Great, thank you.
Excellent.
Our goal, then, is to have these millions of items available on the web and freely available by the year 2000.
And they include—well, right now we have 99 so-called actuality motion pictures from the
very earliest period of motion pictures there in three blocks, New York at the turn of this entry.
Actuality.
That's a new phrase.
Yeah.
Well, it's where they set up a camera on a tripod on a street corner or whatever and just captured the actual life that was flowing in front of the camera.
And so there's a wonderful, wonderful shot of the original Ellis Island things, of the boat coming in.
Isn't it great that they had the perception to do that?
It is.
And there are other street scenes.
There is the demolition of a theater, which was done by hand, and it was in fast motion.
And then there's the San Francisco earthquake, you know, and this actually before, during, and after the earthquake.
highly interesting scenes of the devastation that the earthquake caused, and the buildings still on fire, and walls falling down, and soup kitchens, and all the rest of it.
And then there's the Pan American Exposition at Buffalo, and President Harding.
Harding, as you probably know, was assassinated at the exposition in the Music Pavilion.
We have shot the films of him opening the show, also of Harding's, not Harding, McKinley, McKinley's inauguration.
I thought Harding was the people I told him.
Yes, I'm sorry.
I misspoke.
As it happens, we have in our batch of sound recordings something called the Nation's Forum, which documents the sort of public, famous public speeches at the time of the conclusion of World War I, but also the 1920 election.
So there's a very early 1920 recording of Franklin Roosevelt talking on Americanism.
He was running for vice president with Cox against Harding and Coolidge.
Harding is here unimagined.
Yeah, yeah.
And they're up and online, and those things are all downloadable.
That stuff would never be available.
No.
You would normally have to be a scholar working on a specific project with some funds, with some backing, to come here and see that stuff.
I mean, my feeling, if you know anything about my book, I wrote about print culture and books and the passion for books, but I feel also you have to have an open mind.
You have to look at this stuff with an open mind.
I agree completely, of course.
I love books, and I love all the other materials the library has here.
But I think it is a stupendous development and a miracle that we are able now to take these things and make them available to people in their homes and offices and schools all over the country.
And affirmatively make them available.
I mean, to actually set up sites.
They're not just available, say, that you can just casually find them, but you're actually going out of your way
to say, look, this is the memory of America.
Go look at it and learn from it.
And we'll even help you with facilities to get online.
That's a noble thing, as I view.
Right.
And you'll learn about our education efforts, that in fact we are trying to help teachers to find ways of coping with these new ways of presenting material to kids.
When you pull the kids away from textbooks and teachers away from textbooks and traditional curricula, why then they probably need some help, and we're trying to provide some of that.
Do you find that as you move ahead with this that you have to be almost a public relations man?
I mean, that you don't really—that you have to be really alert to the feelings of this other community, of people who perhaps feel that
You know, you're attempting to put them out of business.
Well, yes.
That was very evident to us a year and a half ago when, with the new, what is it, almost two years ago now, with the new Republican Congress, one of the things that Newt Gingrich, who was a great champion, as you may know, of books, but also of electronic media, just like Al Gore.
The two of them were here at a conference one.
And in any event, when the Republicans then took control of Congress, he told the library in mid-December that he wanted the library to provide congressional documents in a service from the Library of Congress and for the Congress to the American people, so that folks would not, well,
to sort of try to create a level playing field, as they say, for both the lobbyists and the associations in Washington and the American people generally across the country.
So that the Congressional record and other essential texts of all the bills and so on would be readily available.
So in two weeks we put up the first incarnation of what we now call Thomas, which does include all of those things.
So we have had good congressional support, and we are opening up treasure troves of information, and the government is generally, and many other institutions are, in ways that we're undreamed of.
National Archives, are you doing that as well?
Archives is beginning to do it.
The government printing office is making many things available.
Federal register is now available, and so on.
I started to tell you a little bit about Britannica.
I had occasion to try to get information about, what is it called, Sanctare.
I'd never heard of it before, and I was reading something about Italy, and the variable was referred to as Sanctare.
How do you feel about it?
I think it's something like Cia, whatever five is in Italy, Italian, Sanctare, and then terre, and probably places or villages or something.
And I, as it happens, because of
relationship we were trying to establish with the Britannica at the time, I had access to the Britannica online.
It's also available on the web, as a pay service, as well as on CD-ROM.
And so I got into the Britannica and looked it up, did a full-text search, and I either found nothing or found only a couple tiny references which weren't helpful.
And then I just got out and into the web generally and went to one of the big search engines and looked it up.
I don't know who or why, had put up a full site devoted to the Sanctuary.
And there were pictures of the villages and, you know, information for tourists.
If you wanted to go there, here's where you could stay and here's what you will see.
And, you know, the history of how they happened to exist.
Could be.
Yeah, but it was a fairly decent history.
It didn't, you know, it didn't have the authority of the Britannica.
I don't know if it was just a tourist office or something telling me stuff.
It sounded reasonably authentic.
But there was information.
And there were certainly pictures, which presumably were not faked, and there was this abundance of information.
There was also, I was also interested recently, I came across, you remember the seamen, the sailors on the bounty, when they were, some of them escaped and settled in an island.
Pitcairn Island.
Pitcairn, that's it.
I was interested in Pitcairn, and I looked it up in several of the
in effect, published tools were encyclopedias I had.
And there was a little information.
But there's apparently a Pitcairn fanatic who has a website and who has just provided this cornucopia of information on Pitcairn.
So you probably just punch up Pitcairn.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And so it is a sort of living encyclopedia, patchy.
You don't know the full story of the authority of the information or the validity of the information that you're reading.
But generally, it seems to be pretty good.
Almost like oral history stuff, basically.
Exactly.
I mean, you know, you listen to an oral history, you have to document everything somebody says.
It's making us all scholars, in a sense.
That's right, really.
Those people who are using this seriously as an information source.
You have to approach it with this understanding that this is raw material.
And, you know, if you want to take it any further for any scholarly reason, it behooves you to document it independently.
Yeah, and there's where institutions like ours, and for that matter the Botanica, have
seems to me a significant role.
In our case, of course, we're presenting some of the raw materials from our collections, but generally we try to provide a framework.
And in the case of many of our things, the stuff itself, the, in effect, digital artifact, is authentic.
I mean, it has to be authentic.
For instance, in the case of the photographs of the Civil War,
As it happens, we do have a little piece attached to that collection, asking the question, can photographs lie?
And that, when we created what we called Exhibit, tells how some of the Brady photographers actually manipulated the sight, moved the body, and so on, to make a certain effect.
And we sort of warn people that that's the case.
But regardless, there are all of these photographs which are
The authentic artifacts from that period, whether they're showing you a scene which is actual, or whether they're in fact showing you something about the way photographers manipulated a scene, that's also a fact about the Civil War and what was happening.
They still, there were photographers who do that today.
Probably.
I mean, the first one wasn't quite as dramatic.
That's famous.
They asked them to do it again, and the one they did again is the one that's that monument out there.
Tell me, do you have a plan, a grand plan?
I mean, you did mention the year 2000.
We do have a plan, and the plan is for a transition.
We hope that with this special program we can initiate things, get the institution moving in a certain direction, but we expect that what we're doing now should become the routine business of the Library of Congress by the year 2000.
And part of our project plan is in fact to integrate this into normal library procedures and processes and so on.
Well, you know, I think I'm going to talk to you again and see how we're doing and where we are.
Well, John probably told you we have lots of things in mind for the year 2000, because it will be our 200th anniversary, as well as, of course, a millennium year.
And the librarian is keen to make the so-called National Digital Library a sort of centerpiece of that celebration, representing the fact that we now have this new and perhaps more effective way of serving the entire nation.
What we've hoarded here for 200 years is now
Do you work at all with the Corvus people?
I was out there for a couple of days last month.
Yes and no.
Our Princeton Photographs Division worked some with them.
Have you seen this article in the latest Wired magazine?
Is this a copy?
It's my own copy, but we could make a copy for you, or you could pick up the thing.
It's in their usual typography, which drives me crazy.
This is Wired Magazine?
Yeah.
In his image, Bill Gates Corbis is more than the ultimate digital stocking house.
Oh, I have to get that.
It may be the first online for-profit library.
See, I have to get this.
This is Wired Magazine.
Yeah, the latest issue.
You can buy that anywhere?
Well, most big newsstands, at least.
For instance, down here at the Trover Shop between 2nd and 3rd on Pennsylvania is where we got this copy.
It's the current issue, which presumably is November.
I was just out there.
I spent two days with Otto Bettman in Florida.
I interviewed Otto.
Bettman is still alive, isn't he?
Alive and lucid.
Wonderful.
What is he?
In 93.
He's 93?
Yeah, 93.
Well, Corbus was here a couple years ago and tried to negotiate with our Princeton Photographs Division.
It's mentioned in the article that the library has 15 million mainly photographs, about 12 or 13 million photographs of the 15 million items in our Princeton Photographs Division.
And they're public domain items, we must stress.
Well, only some of them, actually.
They're both.
Bettman actually got a number of things from that collection himself, just had copies made of public domain things.
was interested in an arrangement which never fully satisfied us, because it would have made the digital versions of these photographs too proprietary for our purposes.
We view ourselves as in the business of trying to make as much available freely to the whole world as possible.
And there were certain constraints on the contract they wanted to do with us, which caused us some problems.
So in the end, they did, in effect, what Bettman and many others have done, which is simply to make copies of things.
And then what they do with those copies is their business.
Yeah, he provides immediate access.
Yeah, the value added.
People are willing to pay for it.
Exactly.
On the other hand, Corbis right now is a member of
a group of supporters of our geography and map division.
They have, I can't remember what they're calling it, but it's a group of people in the business of creating digitized geographic and cartographic information.
And they support our geography and map division, which is a vast collection of
I was there yesterday.
I hope you got a chance to see some of this.
A city block in one.
Right.
They show you some of their treasures also.
Yeah, we went through them.
It's amazing.
And I love maps.
Oh, I do too.
It was a great treat.
Yeah, yeah.
And so, you know, there's all this historical, geographic, and social, every economic, every other kind of information embodied in maps, in cartographic form.
So many of the people who are associated with creating digital maps are partly from self-interest, but probably partly for other reasons too, interested in that body of stuff being digitized as rapidly and as well as possible.
And so geography and map people have been able to sort of harness that interest and to
gifts of various sorts.
Hewlett Packard has given them several hundred thousand dollars worth of scanning and other equipment, and other people have been quite generous.
But Corbus is one of the members of that group that gave a gift to the library.
And the librarian is interested in other possible modes of relationship, too.
So yes, they're a very active player on the scene.
This tells that they, in fact, have a very long vision, unfortunately.
I interviewed this fellow, Doug Rowan, who's the head of the service.
The president, yeah.
And he mentioned that they have a plan.
I'll be interested to see if they get to see the plan, because I said, you know, they have, what, 17 million images now.
I mean, with the Bettman acquisition, which was all of UPI, it was 16 million images.
So they've got seventeen and a half.
You know, they've got a pretty good base.
Absolutely, they do.
And I said, well, do you have an idea?
I mean, do you have a scheme?
Do you have an outline of things that you need?
Oh, absolutely.
I said, gee, can I see it?
Oh, I don't think so, he said.
So they didn't let me see it.
I'd be curious to know if they got access to it.
They talked a lot about the future, but I don't.
I don't recall anything.
No, he wouldn't tell me.
About their specific plans.
And I wasn't writing for a right now, either.
I was planning to write down the road, you know.
Yeah.
The person who wrote this article, what is his name, Rapaport, had a very, this isn't something you need, um, enthusiastic, provided a very enthusiastic account of his, um,
preview of the Leonardo.
I had the same preview.
Oh, you did?
Well, he was apparently blown away by it.
Yeah, I was.
I just wrote a piece on Otto for this Biblio magazine that I'm writing for.
And I started with, you know, I attended the auction when Gates bought that.
Oh, did you?
For $30 million.
In fact, I have it in my book.
And it's interesting now that he's using it.
I mean, it seems to me that $30 million, you can write that off now.
It's not just a collectible item.
I mean, Corbis is—but did they explain the codoscope there?
Yes, they did.
And in fact, he mentions that when they showed this feature to Gates—let's see.
And he said, you know, how thrilled he was to have that capability.
Oh, here.
When Gates first viewed the transformation rendered by the Codoscope, he told Rowan that Corbis had, quote, raised the bar on all multimedia presentations, unquote.
Such a stunningly prosaic take on this wondrous addition to the understanding of one of the world's greatest artists makes me suspect.
Is Corbis just Bill Gates' electronic butterfly net, et cetera?
I'll let you read it.
Well, you know, what Doug told me, Corbis is wholly owned by Gates.
It's not a subsidiary of Microsoft.
I mean, so they are not required.
They don't have to tell you what their budget is.
It's totally private.
And they have 350 employees.
I mean, you basically have a 350 employee plaything.
It is.
He's testing the waters.
He's brilliant.
He has an idea of what he's doing.
No doubt.
But this also fits in with what seems to be a sort of larger strategy of Microsoft itself.
As you know, they're redoing the Microsoft network.
this next month to make it much heavier in content.
Interestingly to me, they are using more of a television metaphor, as America Online has done recently, in their presentation of Microsoft Network, so that there are channels rather than, say, chapters or whatever, which is an interesting phenomenon in itself.
And they seem also to be getting much more heavily into entertainment in the Microsoft Network
So there will be things more comparable to what you might find on television.
But there's still, interestingly to me, is sort of the information component, which we'll have there in Carta, Encyclopedia, and an online version and other things.
So it's a curious hybrid.
But he's clearly sort of finding, feeling his way towards creating content of all sorts from the far end of the entertainment spectrum.
More than feeling his way, I think it's considered
And as Rowan explained, he said, you know, it's just a natural progression.
I mean, he foresaw this whole operating system that nobody, the big companies couldn't be bothered with.
We'll build the computers.
Who cares about the software to run it?
He did.
And now the next step seems content.
And he also has figured out the whole network thing.
And he's figured out the whole network thing.
It's competition with Netscape.
And I think Netscape essentially is on the verge of throwing in the towel on its browser and then moving into the intranet thing.
Microsoft is interested in that, too.
Because I use Netscape, and I like Netscape.
We'll see what happens.
Well, I use both, actually.
They both have nice, slightly different features, in any event.
We're running out of time.
Yeah, I'm going to have to start preparing for some other things.
I appreciate the—I'll get an hour.